---------------------------------------------------------------------------
DISCOBOARD CONFIGURATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Now that you've got DiscoBoard up and running, it's time to configure it
and set up some message boards.

Message Board Structure
-----------------------
DiscoBoard employs a basic heirarchical structure which allows you to 
group one or more Boards within a "container", or Group as it's known
to DiscoBoard. The heirarchy only goes 1 level down - Boards belong to
Groups, but Groups don't belong to Groups. 

This structure is enough to run most message board systems - you don't
want your users to have to sift through a complex heirarchy to find the
Board they're interested in.

For now, we'll create a simple system with one Group which contains two
Boards:

   DiscoBoard Tutorial Group
    +- General Chat Board
    `- Support Board

For this, we'll be using the Manage Board Structure tool, which is an
Administrator tool. You should remember how to get to the Admin menu
(click Administration!).
    
Creating a Group
----------------
On your first visit to the Manage Structure tool, you should see a blank 
screen with no Board Structure in place. The first thing we need to do 
is create a Group into which we can put Boards:

 - Click "Create a New Group"
 - Fill in the Group Name "DiscoBoard Tutorial Group"
 - Fill in a Group Rank "1"
 - Press Create Group
 
You will be returned to the main page of the Manage Structure tool, but
you should see a message indicating that the Group creation worked and
the Group you just created should be visible in the Structure display.

 >>> The "Rank" is a single character you can use to alter the order
     in which your Groups get displayed to the user. The highest rank
     is 1, from there it goes down to 9, then A to Z. It's not case
     sensitive.

Now, we need to create your Boards within this Group. Below the dark 
grey of the Group row in the Structure, you should now see a link
labelled "Create New Board in DiscoBoard Tutorial Group". A similar
link will appear beneath any Group in the Structure display when you
build up to a more complicated Board Structure later on.

Now we're going to create a new Board within this group. A board has 
several defining characteristics:

 - The Name of the Board
 - A Rank (similar to the Group Rank)
 - The Description of the Board, and
 - The Group ID to which it belongs
 
Follow the following steps to create the first of our tutorial Boards:

 - Click the "Create New Board" link described above
 - Fill in the Board Name "General Chat Board"
 - Fill in a Board Description of your choice - this should describe
   the Board to a user so they can decide whether or not to visit
 - Fill in a Board Rank of "1"
 - Make sure that the selected Group is "DiscoBoard Tutorial Group"
 - Press Create Board

Now, open a second browser window and go to the front page of your
DiscoBoard installation. You should see your "DiscoBoard Tutorial Group"
group in white on a dark grey background. Click on it to Open the Group,
or click "Open All Groups" for the same effect. You should then see your
"General Chat Board" with its description show up inside the Group.

 >>> If you click Open All Groups, you will open ALL Groups on the
     system. For now, there's only one. In the future when you add
     more Groups and Boards, you may decide that you want to have
     all Groups open by default - if this is the case, you can set
     OpenAllGroupsSetting to "all" in the Settings file.

 >>> Advanced Tip: You can use basic DiscoBoard Markup text effects
     in your Group and Board names to make them stand out that little
     bit more. You'd be advised to use this feature sparingly, as the
     more you use it, the less conformity your board system will have
     and your users may get annoyed or confused.
 
Now, go back to your first browser window. We'll create your second 
Board now:

 - Click the "Create New Board" link
 - Fill in the Board Name "Support Board"
 - Fill in a Board Description of your choice
 - Fill in a Board Rank of "2"
 - Make sure that the selected Group is "DiscoBoard Tutorial Group"
 - Press Create Board

Back in the second browser window, you should now be able to reload the 
page and see your second Board in the Group.

 >>> If you create a Board in the wrong Group, don't worry - you
     can use the Edit link next to each Board in the Structure
     display to change the Group to which a Board belongs.

You've just learned how to configure DiscoBoard's Board Structure. Now, 
its up to you to create your own Board Structure to make it easy for 
users to find the Board they want.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
DiscoBoard Configuration Guide v1.0
Jason Murray, March 11, 2003
