---------------------------------------------------------------------------
DISCOBOARD INSTALLATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a quick and dirty guide to installing DiscoBoard on your system.

The Basics
----------

System Requirements:
 - Apache Web Server
 - PHP 4.x
 - MySQL

 >>> Note: Some free hosting services restrict use of the mail() function
     within PHP. These services are not suitable for running DiscoBoard, 
     as the system only emails the user's password to them. If you do 
     install DiscoBoard on such a system, you won't be able to log in.

What you need to know before installing DiscoBoard:
 - The URL you will use to access the system (front page)
 - MySQL Connection Details:
    - Hostname
    - Port Number
    - Username
    - Password
    - Database Name

A Word About Your Database
--------------------------    
For now, only MySQL is supported. Future versions of DiscoBoard may use
PHP's PEAR Database Abstraction functionality to support other types of
database.
     
Unpacking DiscoBoard
--------------------
The main DiscoBoard distribution comes packed in a zip file. Inside the 
zip file, you'll find the following directory structure:

  discoboard.zip
   +- docs/
   +- htdocs/
   |   +- elements/
   |   +- gfx/
   |   |   +- faces/
   |   |   |   `- ign/
   |   |   `- stars/
   |   `- templates/
   `- support/
 
Files under htdocs/ form the public face of DiscoBoard. Copy them to the
directory to which you intend to install DiscoBoard. Usually, "htdocs" is
the name of the root directory of a webserver. It doesn't matter what you
name "htdocs", as long as the names and directory structures beneath it
remain as they are in the distribution file.

You may put the other directories whereever you see fit. They don't need
to be web-accessible, though.

One important change you should make immediately is to copy the files
named theme.disco.php and stylesheet.disco.php to new names. The "disco"
part of the files is called the Theme Name, which we'll get into later
on. For now, think of a new Theme Name (it doesn't have to be long), and
rename the files to theme.X.php and stylesheet.X.php where X is your
new Theme Name.

Naming Your DiscoBoard's Settings File
--------------------------------------
DiscoBoard is configured by a settings file which resides in its root
directory. The name of this file won't be the same for two DiscoBoard
installations, because it's derived from the HTTP hostname of the site
it's running on. 

 >>> The settings file is named this way in order to accomodate some 
     larger sites which may wish to run more than one board system 
     from the same DiscoBoard software installation but maintain a
     different system database.

The HTTP hostname is a part of the URL string you type into a browser:

  http://http-hostname/directory/directory/file

So, whether your forums are going to live at http://www.abc.com/forums
or at http://www.abc.com/~mywebsite/interactive-stuff/forums, the HTTP
Hostname is still "www.abc.com".

Taking the HTTP Hostname, derive a plain lowercase alphanumeric version
of it by removing everything except numbers and letters. We'll call this
the Identifier. In the above examples, the HTTP Hostname "www.abc.com"
becomes an Identifier of "wwwabccom".

Now you need to copy settings.example.php to settings.identifier.php. 
The above examples would become "settings.wwwabccom.php". Remember to
keep a copy of settings.example.php around in case you make a mistake
while editing it.
     
Configuring DiscoBoard
----------------------
Now, open up your Settings file in your favourite text editor (just as
an aside - this should NOT be Microsoft Word!). Something that supports
PHP syntax highlighting (like Homesite) is great, since it will clearly
denote to you what portions of the file are comments and what's there to
be edited.

Before filling in this information, hit "puke.php" with your browser. It
will output PHP's environment configuration and debugging information
for the server you've installed DiscoBoard to.

Most of the information in your Settings file is filled in to a default
value which is enough to get your DiscoBoard system running. From there,
you can worry about configuring it futher. The most important pieces of
information you need to supply are (from the top):

 - ServerAddress
   If puke.php doesn't show a value (or shows the wrong value) for
   HTTP_HOST, you will need to fill this value in.

 - DocRoot
   This is the directory which serves as your website's root directory.
   Even if you're not installing DiscoBoard in the root directory, you 
   need to fill this value in. If puke.php doesn't show any value for
   DOCUMENT_ROOT, or its value is incorrect, you will need to fill this
   in yourself. You can make a guess at the correct value by looking at
   the value for PHP_SELF in puke.php.
   
 - BaseDir
   This is the directory path to the root directory of the website with 
   your DiscoBoard installation to your actual installation directory. 
   So, if you were to install your DiscoBoard system at 
   http://www.abc.com/mystuff/forums then BaseDir is /mystuff/forums.
   Note that if you fill in a value for BaseDir, you need to put a 
   leading slash ("/") at the start of it otherwise various operations
   may fail later on.
   
 - MySQL Information
   Your system administrator or helpdesk should be able to provide this
   information to you if you don't already have it. You need:
    - MySQLServer
      The server (or server:port) to which you connect for MySQL
    - MySQLUsername and MySQLPassword
      The authentication credentials you need in order to connect
    - MySQLDatabase
      The name of the database within MySQL into which you set up 
      the tables in the Database Setup stage

 - DatabasePrefix
   The prefix for all DiscoBoard tables within your MySQL database. You
   were told to remember this earlier, so let's hope you have :). The
   default is "disco".
   
    >>> If you wish to change the prefix from the default of "disco",
        you will need to use rename-tables.sql under the support/ 
        directory of the DiscoBoard distribution. You may need to
        edit this file to perform the right renames, but remember
        that you need to use the SAME prefix for ALL tables.
        
 - ThemeName
   Set ThemeName to the Theme Name you decided on earlier. It's very
   important that you don't use "disco", as this Theme will be used
   for demonstrating new features in future updates, and you may lose
   the custom configurations you did to your Theme and Stylesheet
   files.
   
You have now entered enough information to get your DiscoBoard up and
running. You can revisit the settings file later to explore the options
available to you. The purpose of each setting is documented immediately
above it in PHP comments (lines leading with //). Remember that this IS
a PHP file, so if you make any mistakes the PHP interpreter will throw
an error when you attempt to use DiscoBoard.

Setting Up The Database
-----------------------
Now that you've filled in the details in your settings file, you're all
set to populate the database with the tables needed to run DiscoBoard.

First, visit /setup-database.php with your web browser. You will see
a large blank text input area. Under support/, you will find a file that
contains the database structure - database-tables.sql. Paste the SQL
commands contained within that file into the text input area on this
page, and press "Process Query". The page will reload with a lot of
SQL statements echo'd out to the browser to show you that it worked.

Next, also under support/, you will find database-data.sql which is the
SQL needed to populate basic tables like User Classes, Country Names and 
so forth. Again, copy the SQL commands from this file, paste them into
the text input area and press "Process Query".

 >>> If you see errors while processing these SQL commands, it's
     likely that your MySQL connection is not configured properly
     in your Settings file.
  
 >>> The names of all of DiscoBoard's database tables, by default, 
     start with the word "disco". This is important for later, so 
     remember it now.
     
 [!] IMPORTANT - DELETE THIS FILE WHEN YOU'RE FINISHED WITH IT!
     This file (setup-database.php) is a SECURITY RISK. Do not leave
     it in a web-accessible directory after you run it, as it can run
     any query on your database - your entire database can be deleted
     if it's left accessible.

Now, your database setup is complete and we're ready to finish setting
up your DiscoBoard installation.

Setting Up: The First User
--------------------------
Now, go to the front page of your DiscoBoard installation. You should
see a plain page with some menu options and a Register link. Follow the
Register link, and create an account called "System" or "Administrator"
with an email address you have access to.

 >>> You shouldn't use your normal email address for this account, as
     it won't be used very often, and DiscoBoard enforces unique email
     addresses amongst its user database.

 >>> It doesn't actually matter what you call this first account, but
     the first post in any message board will be made by this account
     so it's worth calling it something that gives an impression of its
     purpose rather than creating a personal account for yourself.

Now you've created your first user, which we'll call your Maintenance
Account. It's time to upgrade them to Super User status so that you can 
establish some control over DiscoBoard:

 - Go to /setup.php 
 - Enter the username you just created, and press Upgrade

The user you just created is now a Super User, with complete control
over DiscoBoard.

 >>> When you Upgrade an account with setup.php, you will see text
     on the screen which advises you to delete the file because it
     constitutes a security risk. This is because any user who is
     familiar with DiscoBoard's internal workings could register 
     an account on your system and use setup.php to upgrade their
     account to Super User without your knowledge. It is HIGHLY
     recommended that you delete setup.php now.

Setting Up: Your Own Account
----------------------------
Now, you should create a second account - your Personal Account - for 
your everyday use. This will be the account you log into each day, and 
you should now use your normal email address. Once you're done, log into 
the Maintenance Account (the first account you created - the email which
contains the password should have arrived by now). There is no need to 
log into your Personal Account just yet.

 >>> Now that setup.php has been deleted, the only way for anyone to get
     upgraded to Super User status is for them to be upgraded by another
     Administrator.

Now it's time to upgrade your personal account to administrator status.
Click on the Administration option on your menu bar to go into the Admin
menu system. This takes the form of a frame to the left of your browser
which shows the Administration options currently available. We're going
to use the Manage Users tool, so click on that.

Setting Up: Managing Users
--------------------------
The Manage Users tool gives you a username search to the left of the
page and an Access Class Summary to the right, showing the number of
account that exist in each Access Class. At the moment, you should
see one Super User and one Standard.

You can either click on the word "Standard" to show all accounts in 
that class, or enter a part of your Personal Account's username to
find it.

 >>> Note that the Manage Users tool will allow you to modify the 
     account you are currently logged into.

To the right of your Personal Account's username is a checkbox, which 
you can tick to indicate to the system that you want to perform some
action on this account. When you have more users, you can select more 
than one account to modify at once using this technique. Now, tick the 
checkbox next to your Personal Account and select "Set user class: Super 
User" from the drop-down menu, then press Modify Users.

Your Personal Account has now been upgraded to the Super User class, just
like the Maintenance Account. Now it's time to log out of the Maintenance
Account and log into your Personal Account.

 >>> You shouldn't need to log into the Maintenance Account anymore.
 
Your DiscoBoard system is now up and running - enjoy!

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
DiscoBoard Installation Guide v1.0
Jason Murray, March 11, 2003
